# Code Review Checklist Template #This isn't intended to be a comprehensive list but a starting point for your own. Not all items may apply to your work.  Add to, remove from, or adapt as needed for your expertise and need. * Does the code work correctly?* Is the code complete? Is any future work clearly documented if left unimplemented (e.g. TODO)? Note: if there is unfinished or future work, probe why. Long-term future work should not be left in the code but should be captured in a backlog instead.* Can you understand what it's doing?* Is there a simpler way of achieving the objectives?* Does the change introduce a breaking change? If so, is it intentional? Is there a plan for handling anything that depends on it?* Does it follow our agreed upon coding conventions and standards? Are deviations from the standards documented?* Is it consistent with the rest of the solution? (consistency makes it easier to read/understand)* Are there any compilation or runtime errors or warnings? [hint: there should be no errors or unsuppressed warnings (these must be commented)]* Are any abstractions natural and understandable? Abstractions should not be used to simply share code, they should be logical and fit the problem.* Is there any redundant or unnecessary duplication? NOTE: duplicate code is preferable to bad abstractions.* Is the code testable? Are there tests? Do the tests cover both success and error conditions? Do tests cover the full range of inputs?* Does the test code meet the same standards (maintainable, understandable, correct) as the code under test after accounting for compromises to make testing easier, more maintainable?* Has all commented out code been removed?* Could the code be replaced with a well-supported library or package?* Are all inputs checked (null, type, length, format, range)?* Are SQL statements parameterized?* Is all HTML valid?* Are outputs encoded if rendered?* Are any error conditions ignored? Exceptions suppressed (and not logged or commented upon)?* Comments are generally a bad code smell. Do comments explain why, not what the code is doing? Could the code be written so as to make any comments unnecessary?* Does the code have sufficient logging?* Has the developer left behind any debugging code that should be removed?* Has any external documentation been updated? Note: this would include auto-generated documentation. For example, code annotations that are used to generate API docs should match the API signature and any error conditions.